# P1

## Running

To run the project, first build it, then run it:

```bash
cd <project_dir>   # should be 'P1'
make
./build/testScanner                   # to run with keyboard input
./build/testScanner test              # to run with file as input
./build/testScanner < test.4280E01    # to run with file redirection
```

## Project Specifications

- Implement scanner for the lexical definitions
- The scanner is embedded and thus it will return one token every time it is called by a parser-directed translator
- Since the parser is not available yet, we will use a tester program, see below
- The scanner could be implemented as
   - plain string reader assuming (75)
      - all tokens must be separated by spaces
      - lines not counted
      - implemented with switches/ifs
   - module generated by lex (75)
   - FSA table + driver (100)
      - In this case you must have the README file and state on your first line that you are using this option table/driver plus an information on where the table data is. If this information is missing, the project will be graded at 75.
- Implement a token as a triplet {tokenID, tokenInstance, line#} (no line number for the first options) . TokenID can be enumeration or symbolic constant, tokenInstance can be a string or can be some reference to a symbol table
- Dont forget EOFtk token in either case
- For testing purposes, this project is to keep displaying tokens one at a time. Every token should be displayed to the screen, one token per line, listing line# (if available), some name identifying the token (not just the enumerated value), and the instance string of the token if any.
- Invocation:
```
   testScanner [file]
```
to scan from stdin or file file.4280E01. Note that the extension is implicit. That is if the source is in project.4280E01 (sources must have extension .4280E01), then the correct invocation is testScanner project and not testScanner project.4280E01.
   - reading from the keyboard should work with redirection from a file, as in P0
   - wrong invocations will not be graded
- Graded 80% execution and 20% style
- You must have (C++ can be accordingly different)
   - types including token type definition in token.h
   - implement scanner in scanner.c and scanner.h
   - implement the tester in another file testScanner.c and testScanner.h
   - main.c
   - file name or handle/pointer can be passed using globals or parameters
   - the same about the token but here scanner() function returning the token is probably better option

## Lex Def

- All case sensitive
- Alphabet
   - all English letters (upper and lower), digits, plus the extra characters as seen below, plus WS
   - No other characters allowed and they should generate lexical errors
      - Each scanner error should display "Scanner Error:" followed by details.
- Identifiers
   - begin with a letter and
   - continue with any number of letters
   - you may assume no identifier is longer than 8
- Keywords (reserved, suggested individual tokens)
   - `start stop decision while void int return read print program`
- Operators delimiters etc.
   - `=  <<  >>  =!  == :  +  -  *  / & %  . (  ) , { } ; [ ]`
- Integers
   - any sequence of decimal digits, no sign
   - you may assume no number longer than 8 digits
- Comments start with # and end with WS